Update README.md (#1)
wineslab/open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset: README.md

The dataset is available at the following [link](https://repository.library.northeastern.edu/collections/neu:h989sz017). If you use it in your work, please reference the paper above.

# Experimental setup
- Number of Base Stations (BSs): 1
- Channel bandwidth: 10 MHz (50 Physical Resource Blocks (PRBs))
- Number of slices for each BS: 2
- Scheduling policies available to each slice:
    - Policy 0: Round-robin (RR)
    - Policy 2: Proportionally fair (PF)
- Number of User Equipments (UEs): 8
    - Users 1-4 demand Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB) traffic
    - Users 5-8 demand Ultra Reliable and Low Latency Communications (URLLC) traffic
- UE mobility: static
- Traffic: The traffic is twinned from a public dataset of LTE network from 3 BSs located in Madrid, Spain.
    - BS1: carrier frequency at 816 MHz
    - BS2: carrier frequency at 1835 MHz
    - BS3: carrier frequency at 2650 MHz
- Number of slices for the BS: 2 (slice_id 0 for eMBB UEs and slice_id 1 for URLLC UEs)
- Slicing configurations: There are 50 PRBs in total to allocate for the two slices.

> |  Slice Resouce Allocation  | Slice_id 0 (eMBB: UEs 1-4) PRBs  |  Slice_id 1 (URLLC: UEs 5-8) PRBs  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  Slice Resouce Allocation  | Slice ID 0 (eMBB: UEs 1-4) PRBs  |  Slice ID 1 (URLLC: UEs 5-8) PRBs  |
```

|------------|------------|------------|
| Slicing 1 | 9 | 41 |
| Slicing 2 | 21 | 29 |
| Slicing 3 | 30 | 20 |
| Slicing 4 | 39 | 11 |
| Slicing 5 | 50 | 0 |

# Dataset stucture

> - The dataset has the following structure: 3 clusters, 5 slicings, 2 schedualing. In total 30 combinations.

Reviewer: The first bullet point is not easy to understand. Can we elaborate more on this?

    - cluster/slicing/schedualing
- Each experiment has a directory named `RESERVATION-<experiment_id>`
- Inside each experiment directory, there is a directory named `bs` for the base station files, and there is one directory named `ue_<IMSI>` for each UE for the files related to that UE.
- Base Station files:
    - `mgen-script-scope.mgen`: The MGEN script that twins the real-world traffic used for generating traffic for all the UEs in the experiment. 
    - `<IMSI>_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KMPs collected at the base station for each UE.

>     - `end_metrics.csv`: downlink bitrate and uplink bitrate for all the UEs in the experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `enb_metrics.csv`: downlink and uplink bitrate of the network, aggregated for all the UEs served by the base station.
```

>     - `enb.log`: log file collected at the base station.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `enb.log`: log file of the base station protocol stack.
```

- UE files: 

>     - `mgen.log`: MGEN logs for the UE that are from the APP layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `mgen.log`: Application-layer KPMs collected from MGEN.
```

>     - `mgen.csv`: Same mgen.log data converted to a csv table.

Reviewer: I don't think we have both, did you try to download the public dataset and check?

Author: No, we didn't. I'm changing this.

    - `ue_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the ue side. (?)

>     - `ue.log`: log file collected at each UE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `ue.log`: log file of the UE protocol stack.
```

    - 3 clusters (cluster_1, cluster_2, cluster_3)
    - 5 slicings (slicing_1, slicing_2, slicing_3, slicing_4, slicing_5)
    - 2 schedualings (scheduling_0, scheduling_2)
    Therefore, in total there are 30 combinations of configurations in the available experiments.
- Here is a tree example of directory structure for `RESERVATION-142634` in cluster_1, slicing_1, schedualing_0. 
```
├── cluster_1
│   ├── slicing_1
│   │   ├── scheduling_0
│   │   │   ├── RESERVATION-142634
│   │   │   │   ├── bs
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456002_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456003_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456004_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456005_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456006_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456007_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456008_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456009_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── enb.log
│   │   │   │   │   ├── enb_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   │   └── mgen.log
│   │   │   │   ├── ue_001010123456002
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen.csv

> │   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen.log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

│   │   │   │   │   ├── ue.log
│   │   │   │   │   └── ue_metrics.csv
...
```
- Each experiment has a directory named `RESERVATION-<experiment_id>`
- Inside each experiment directory, there is a directory named `bs` for the base station files, and there is one directory named `ue_<IMSI>` for each UE for the files related to that UE.
- Base Station files:
    - `mgen-script-scope.mgen`: The MGEN script that twins the real-world traffic used for generating traffic for all the UEs in the experiment. 
    - `<IMSI>_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KMPs collected at the base station for each UE.
    - `enb_metrics.csv`: downlink and uplink bitrate of the network, aggregated for all the UEs served by the base station.
    - `enb.log`: log file of the base station protocol stack.
- UE files: 

>     - `mgen.log`: Application-layer KPMs collected from MGEN.

Reviewer: Say that we converted it and add the .csv one

>     - `mgen.log`: Application-layer KPMs collected from MGEN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     - `ue_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the ue side. (?)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `ue_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the ue side.
```

Also say that we converted it.

Reviewer: We also have the mgen script at the user

> Dataset for the paper L. Bonati, R. Shirkhani, C. Fiandrino, S. Maxenti, S. D'Oro, M. Polese, T. Melodia, "Twinning Commercial Network Traces on Experimental Open RAN Platforms," in Proceedings of ACM WiNTECH, Washington, DC, USA, November 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dataset for the paper L. Bonati, R. Shirkhani, C. Fiandrino, S. Maxenti, S. D'Oro, M. Polese, T. Melodia, "Twinning Commercial Network Traces on Experimental Open RAN Platforms," in Proceedings of ACM WiNTECH, Washington, DC, USA, November 2024. [[pdf]](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.16217) [[bibtex]](https://ece.northeastern.edu/wineslab/wines_bibtex/bonati2024twinning.txt)
```

The dataset is available at the following [link](https://repository.library.northeastern.edu/collections/neu:h989sz017). If you use it in your work, please reference the paper above.

# Experimental setup
- Number of Base Stations (BSs): 1
- Channel bandwidth: 10 MHz (50 Physical Resource Blocks (PRBs))
- Number of slices for each BS: 2
- Scheduling policies available to each slice:
    - Policy 0: Round-robin (RR)
    - Policy 2: Proportionally fair (PF)
- Number of User Equipments (UEs): 8

>     - Users 1-4 demand Enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB) traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Users 1-4 belong to the enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB) slice
```

>     - Users 5-8 demand Ultra Reliable and Low Latency Communications (URLLC) traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Users 5-8 belong to the Ultra Reliable and Low Latency Communications (URLLC) slice
```

- UE mobility: static

| UE ID   | UE IMSI   |   Traffic Type  |
|------------|------------|------------|
| 1 | 1010123456002 | eMBB | 
| 2 | 1010123456003 | eMBB |
| 3 | 1010123456004 | eMBB |
| 4 | 1010123456005 | eMBB | 
| 5 | 1010123456006 | URLLC |
| 6 | 1010123456007 | URLLC |
| 7 | 1010123456008| URLLC | 
| 8 | 1010123456009 | URLLC | 

> - Traffic: The traffic is twinned from a public dataset of LTE network from 3 BSs located in Madrid, Spain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Traffic: The traffic is twinned from a public dataset of LTE network from 3 BSs located in Madrid, Spain, available at this [link](https://git2.networks.imdea.org/wng/madrid-lte-dataset).
```

    - BS1: carrier frequency at 816 MHz
    - BS2: carrier frequency at 1835 MHz
    - BS3: carrier frequency at 2650 MHz
- Number of slices for the BS: 2 (slice_id 0 for eMBB UEs and slice_id 1 for URLLC UEs)
- Slicing configurations: There are 50 PRBs in total to allocate for the two slices.

|  Slice Resouce Allocation  | Slice ID 0 (eMBB: UEs 1-4) PRBs  |  Slice ID 1 (URLLC: UEs 5-8) PRBs  |
|------------|------------|------------|
| Slicing 1 | 9 | 41 |
| Slicing 2 | 21 | 29 |
| Slicing 3 | 30 | 20 |
| Slicing 4 | 39 | 11 |
| Slicing 5 | 50 | 0 |

# Dataset stucture

> - There are two zip files available for downloading:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There are two compressed files available for downloading:
```

>     - `open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset-kmp` which contains the metrics and the MGEN scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset-kmp`, which contains the metrics and the MGEN scripts.
```

>     - `open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset-log` which contains the log files. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `open-ran-commercial-traffic-twinning-dataset-log`, which contains the log files. 
```

- The dataset has the following structure: cluster_<#>/slicing_<#>/schedualing_<#>

>     - 3 clusters (cluster_1, cluster_2, cluster_3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 3 cluster configurations (cluster_1, cluster_2, cluster_3)
```

>     - 5 slicings (slicing_1, slicing_2, slicing_3, slicing_4, slicing_5)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 5 slicing configurations (slicing_1, slicing_2, slicing_3, slicing_4, slicing_5)
```

>     - 2 schedualings (scheduling_0, scheduling_2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 2 scheduling policies (scheduling_0, scheduling_2)
```

- In total there are 30 combinations of configurations in the available experiments.

> - Here is a tree example of directory structure for `RESERVATION-142634` in cluster_1, slicing_1, schedualing_0 for both datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An example of a directory tree example for `RESERVATION-142634` in cluster_1, slicing_1, scheduling_0 for both dataset files.
```

```
├── cluster_1
│   ├── slicing_1
│   │   ├── scheduling_0
│   │   │   ├── RESERVATION-142634
│   │   │   │   ├── bs
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456002_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456003_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456004_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456005_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456006_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456007_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456008_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── 1010123456009_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── enb_metrics.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   ├── ue_001010123456002
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen.csv
│   │   │   │   │   ├── mgen-script-scope.mgn
│   │   │   │   │   └── ue_metrics.csv
...
```

```
├── cluster_1
│   ├── slicing_1
│   │   ├── scheduling_0
│   │   │   ├── RESERVATION-142634
│   │   │   │   ├── bs
│   │   │   │   │   └── enb.log
│   │   │   │   ├── ue_001010123456002
│   │   │   │   │   └── ue.log
...
```

- Each experiment has a directory named `RESERVATION-<experiment_id>`

> - Inside each experiment directory, there is a directory named `bs` for the base station files, and there is one directory named `ue_<IMSI>` for each UE for the files related to that UE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Inside each experiment directory, there is a directory named `bs` for the base station files, as well as directories named `ue_<IMSI>`, one for each UE, that contains the files related to the specific UE.
```

- Base Station files:

>     - `mgen-script-scope.mgen`: The MGEN script that twins the real-world traffic used for generating traffic for all the UEs in the experiment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `mgen-script-scope.mgen`: MGEN script that twins the real-world traffic used for generating downlink traffic for the UEs in the experiment. 
```

>     - `<IMSI>_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KMPs collected at the base station for each UE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `<IMSI>_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the base station for each UE.
```

    - `enb_metrics.csv`: downlink and uplink bitrate of the network, aggregated for all the UEs served by the base station.
    - `enb.log`: log file of the base station protocol stack.
- UE files: 

>     - `mgen-script-scope.mgn`: The MGEN script that is used to indicate the listening port for each UE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `mgen-script-scope.mgn`: MGEN script running at the UE, used to start the MGEN listening process.
```

>     - `mgen.csv`: Application-layer KPMs collected from MGEN logs and converted to a .csv file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `mgen.csv`: Application-layer KPMs collected from the MGEN logs and converted to a .csv file.
```

>     - `ue_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the ue side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `ue_metrics.csv`: PHY- and MAC-layer KPMs collected at the UE side.
```

>     - `ue.log`: log file of the UE protocol stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `ue.log`: log file of the UE cellular protocol stack.
```
